# Data Types collected from Okta by this add-on

## General

All data collected by this add-on will contain a `source` of `Okta:im2` and the `host` value will be the domain of your Okta tenant _(e.g. yourdomain.okta.com)_

The `sourcetype` of the data will vary by the "metric" associated with the input.  Refer to this table for the sourcetype generated by specific metrics used in the input and a link / description of the type of data.

| Input Metric | sourcetype | API reference / Description |
|----------|-------------|----------------------------------|
| Log | `OktaIM2:log` | [Log Object](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/system_log/#attributes) |
| User | `OktaIM2:user` | [User Object](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/users/#user-properties) |
| Group | `OktaIM2:group` | [Group Object](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/groups/#group-attributes) |
| Group | `OktaIM2:groupUser` | made up object to help Splunk, just a simple user to group mapping object |
| App | `OktaIM2:app` | [App Object](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/apps/#application-properties) |
| App | `OktaIM2:appUser` | made up object to help Splunk, a truncated version of an [appUser Object](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/apps/#application-user-properties) useful for maping a user to an app along with some high level metadata about the assginement |

Refer to the descriptions below for each type of data for additional context relative to Splunk.

## Log [/api/v1/logs](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/system_log/#attributes)
 
This input is responsible for the ingesting all of the transactional events occurring in your Okta org it is the *most important* input provided by this add-on and should be configured to retrieve its data in a near real time manner.

Refer to the API documentation for a detailed explaination of the data model.  You can also review the [event type catalog](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/event-types) additional insight into the meaning of specific event types you will see.

### Sample queries and analysis concepts will be forthcoming.

stay tuned

## User [/api/v1/users](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/users/#user-properties)
 
User objects are JSON representations of user objects in Okta Universal Directory.  This isn't a transactional stream of "events" relative to users, rather a sync or replica of users from Okta.  This data type can be be used to enrich log data retrieved from the log input, it could also be useful for performing adhoc and complex queries and analysis of your user population.
 
When this input is initially configured it will need to sync ALL of the user objects from Okta into Splunk.  On subsequent job intervals the input will only retrieve user objects that have been modified since the last collection (deltas).

## Group [/api/v1/groups](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/groups/#group-attributes)

Group objects are JSON representations of groups object in Okta Universal Directory, it is also used to enumerate group memberships**.  This isn't a transactional stream of "events" relative to groups, rather a sync or replica of groups from Okta or other connected directories and applications.  This data type  can be used to enrich log data retrieved from the log input, it could also be useful for performing adhoc and complex queries and analysis of your groups and group memberships.
 
When this input is initially configured it will need to sync ALL of the group objects from Okta into Splunk.  On subsequent job intervals the input will only retrieve group objects that have been modified since the last collection (deltas).

## App [/api/v1/apps](https://developer.okta.com/docs/api/resources/apps/#application-properties)
 
App objects are JSON representations of apps objects in Okta Universal Directory, it is also used to enumerate users assigned to apps and groups related to apps -- assignment groups, groups sourced from the app or groups pushed to the app.  This isn't a transactional stream of "events" relative to apps, rather a sync or replica of apps as they are configured in Okta.  This data type can be used to enrich data retrieved from the log input, it could also be useful for performing adhoc and complex queries and analysis of your apps, their configuration as well as applications assignments.
 
## appUser

coming soon

## groupUser

coming soon
